[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: There are a few flavors
of tests that I want us to be on
the same page with terminology wise.
So unit tests are about testing
algorithmic complexity.
So if you have like this computer
property which we just built which
essentially is values in and value out,
that is great for a unit test.
Because you can list a whole bunch of
different test cases where you know it's
in the array, it's not in the array.
Tests that if it's a matching
the stringified version of
this object is in the array,
but it's a different object.
It's a different instance of the object.
Make sure that works as expected.
This is a great case for you to test.
So integration tests in
the context of the Ember
they really mean component
integration tests.
And what integration tests are all
about is the points of contact
between system components.
So this is also a test that will
be somewhat in isolation and
what that means is when you're
testing our GitHub org component.
The GitHub repo component will
actually not be available for
you to use in templates unless
you specifically say I need this.
By default you're sort of
in an isolated environment,
just trying to reduce the scope of the
scenario down to the point where you can
test this thing by itself.
And have the right way of interacting
with it to simulate the way
you expecting it to be used.
Then finally we have acceptance tests,
which are the same thing
as functional tests.
And this is not testing in isolation,
this is starting your real application up
programmatically rendered in
a div as part of the test runner.
And you're here going to be testing real
workflows and clicking on a link and
making sure the URL is correct and
making sure this is what's on the screen.
These are much slower because
things really have to render and
because JavaScript test.
There's just more overhead
in starting it up and
going through these flows and
just more going on.
But especially when it comes to things
like routes which manage transitions
between state, this is a great place
to get your release confidence.
Because it's the whole thing,
it's the real deal,
it's your application as your
users are going to be using it.
So I tried to put together
a little rule of thumb.
Which thing to reach for, for
a given flavor of Ember object, for
a given entity in the Ember framework.
So utils, models and services,
I tend to test with unit tests and
that's because these things
can really stand on their own.
A model can exist even if there
is no adapter and serializer,
we'll learn about this
when we get to Ember data.
But utils in our case,
it's just a function and
you just need the idea
of a computer property,
potentially just an Ember object,
that you create in your test.
You don't even need to sense
of like having a component or
this higher-level constructs.
Services again, isolated, very simple
objects designed to be used anywhere
as a result they can be used anywhere.
They can be tested anywhere, and
they can be tested in isolation.
Integration tests were
a fairly recent addition.
And I should say things were recently
improved dramatically when it comes
to component integration tests.
They are built for components.
They can be used for other things.
But essentially you provide,
the things that you
provide to set up a scenario and the ways
you have to change the scenario and
listen to what's going on and
check for the presence of things.
They lend themselves extremely
well to component testing.
Routes, I don't even bother
with route unit tests.
It's possible, but
really when it comes to transitioning
between applications states,
I want to be dealing with my application.
It's very hard to test it thoroughly and
completely in a valid way
that is in alignment with how the app
is using a route in a unit test.
And then ember-data stuff, also deal
with that in acceptance tests, and
the reason is I wanna see
that I've visited a page,
that an API request goes out for
a particular data.
I wanna provide a synthetic payload and
like an API response I wanna provide
some JSON for that and then see that
what I expect to render on the screen
is in fact going to be on the screen.
And so,
really you're testing through Ember,
through jQuery,
all the way down to XML HTTP request.
And that is a long chain of things to
be able to capture correctness on.
And the bottom line is data is
driving what's on the screen and
you want to see the whole thing
percolates all the way up.
So one nuance about testing has to do
with this concept of a run loop.
And a run loop is just a prioritize
work queue which saves us
from the expense of having
to update the DOM for
example when each and
every property change event happens.
So in normal mode, we're doing our gets,
we're doing our sets, and
if in on the JavaScript side of the world.
You can do a set and
then a get immediately following that and
the very blossom fact changed.
But things that it has been
bound to in your templates,
those have not changed yet.
That happens after each iteration
of the run that completes.
So, your whole actions If you have
a complicated action handload that sets
a bunch of stuff up, all of that
will take place and then finally,
an update to the DOM will happen,
all at once, A, B and C.
That's actually one change but
that will be property A, B and
C being changed,
that's like one efficient DOM update.
In testing mode, because you want to,
more often than not,
make a property change and see that
this is on, this is what happened.
Make a property change, and
see that this is what happened.
So, we actually have the run loop
turned off in Ember testing mode.
And what that means is there
are certain things like if
you want to schedule some
work to be done later or
you've seen me use ember.run.later
when I was delaying promises.
That kind of stuff you will need to
actually do some extra work to support.
If that's in your code you need to
provide a run loop around your test.
Which is not difficult,
you just need to be aware of it.
But, this is essentially the difference
between running your app
normally versus in testing mode.
>> Speaker 2: Throttling the same way?
Like if you run Throttle.
>> Mike North: Throttle uses the run
loop.
>> Mike North: Running
tests is quite easy.
There are three ways to do it,
really three and a half ways.
localhost:4200/tests, you will see
a queue unit test runner start
running through everything.
And it's hooked up to
live reload of course so
you can leave that open and code and
save until your tests pass.
ember test ci will just run
your tests in the console and
ember test-server,
the test runner we have,
it's actually testem around q unit.
Testem will stay open keep running,
and as you make changes it'll rerun.
So it's sort of like
having your browser open
live reload running the tests over and
over except it's in the console.
So I'm actually going to demonstrate
what that looks like and I expect
we'll have some failing tests because
we haven't been paying attention to it,
shame on us.
>> Mike North: So,
ember test ci,
it's going to build the app, and
then the output is gonna be
essentially a TAP file, which is
exactly what you want to feed into
something like code climate or whatever.
And you can see we've got some okay,
and then we've got some not okay,
so here there's some issue,
a lot of JSHint problems.
So, the other way of doing
it is through the browser.
>> Mike North: And if we go over here.
This is probably the more
common way to do it.
>> Mike North: Get rid of this.
We can hide the past tests which is
great for getting rid of the noise.
So here, it looks like I've
probably got some white space.
It's a little bit different between
what's expected versus what
we're actually seeing.
And a lot of this is just sort
of the basic auto generated
tests no longer fit what my
components are doing, right,
so Ember CLI, it's helpful and
that it gets you started.
But it expects things to work in
a default way and the more you
do to actually build your application out,
things aren't empty anymore.
Things aren't you know,
the component has content in it now.
And the last way just to show you ember
test-server.
>> Mike North: And
I'm gonna make this wider so we don't.
>> Mike North: So
here, similarly you see that
this is continuing to run, and
I can go over here and make a change.
>> Mike North: And it just reran.
And this is nice so
if I was running on five or
six different browsers those would
be in tabs across the top so
you can have like phantom.js running and
Chrome and Safari and whatever.
But this is kind of neat to have up and
running if you don't wanna have browser
tabs all over the place.
>> Mike North: And
hit Q to quit and we're back.